---
title: "1979 Technical Symposium"
layout: page
---

The 10th Technical Symposium was held Feb 22-23 in Dayton, OH. Doug Kerr
(Ohio State) served as the Conference Chair. John Dalphin (Indiana
University -- Purdue At Fort Wayne) was the Program Chair and 54 papers
were accepted.

We also elected a new Board. Robert Aiken (University of Tennessee) was
re-elected as Chair and Norman Gibbs (College of William and Mary) was
re-elected as Vice-Chair. James Powell (Burroughs Wellcome Company) was
elected as Secretary-Treasurer. All three Director members were
re-elected: Richard Austing (University of Maryland), Gerald Engel
(Christopher Newport College), and Betty Sproule (Brown & Williamson
Tobacco Corp). Della Bonnette (University of Southwestern Louisiana)
continued as Bulletin Editor (the last of 4 terms) and John Gorgone
(Bentley College) continued as the Assistant Bulletin Editor.

The Bulletin (Volume 11, Issue 3, September 1979) announced the creation
of the SIGCSE Annual Award for Outstanding Contribution to Computer
Science Education, and that the recipient would give a keynote at the
Technical Symposium. It took 2 years from announcement to the first
award.

Here's a good one: at the October 31, 1979 Business meeting, the idea of
corporate sponsors was initiated. The proposal was for sponsors to pay
\$200 and receive SIGCSE publications, free attendance at the Technical
Symposium, and have their company listed on the inside cover of the
Bulletin.