---
title: "2007 History Blog"
layout: page
---

It was time for elections. In 2007 we elected Barbara Boucher Owens
(Southwestern University) as Chair, Alison Young (Unitec New Zealand) as
Vice-Chair, Dan Joyce (Villanova University) as Secretary, and Renee
McCauley (College of Charleston) as Treasurer. Elected to the Board were
Doug Baldwin (SUNY Geneseo), Wanda Dann (Ithaca College), Russell Ingrid
(University of Hartford), and Henry Walker (Grinnell University, as
immediate past Chair). The Bulletin (Inroads) Editor continued to be
John Impagliazzo (Hofstra University).

The 38th Technical Symposium was held March 7-10, 2007 in Covington, KY
(just outside Cincinnati). The Conference chairs were Susan Haller (SUNY
Potsdam) and Ingrid Russell (University of Hartford). The Program Chairs
were Susan Rodger (Duke University) and J.D. Dougherty (Haverford
College). There were 317 papers submitted and 108 were accepted (34%
acceptance rate). There were 1250 attendees.

There were two Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education
Awards given at this Symposium, one posthumously. The Outstanding
Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was given to **John
Hughes**, in memory of his forty years contribution to computing
education, academic leadership and research in Australasia and
internationally. He was an outstanding mentor of students and colleagues
and a committed educator.

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to **Judith Gal-Ezer**, an outstanding researcher and curriculum
designer who has carried out pioneering work involving teaching the
essence of computer science on both the high school and university
levels. Her keynote was entitled \"To Teach is to Touch Lives Forever\"
(doi\>10.1145/1227310.1227312 ). You can listen to an interview with
Judith through the Computing Educators Oral History Project here:
[http://ahab.southwestern.edu/departments/mathcompsci/OHProject/galEzerJ-\...](http://ahab.southwestern.edu/departments/mathcompsci/OHProject/galEzerJ-overview.html)

The Lifetime Service to Computer Science Education was awarded to **John
Impagliazzo**, for extraordinary services to computing education, with
particular contributions to the SIGCSE Bulletin, to international
conferences on computing history, to accreditation leadership, and to
curricula development.

You can listen to an interview with John through the Computing Educators
Oral History Project here:
[http://ahab.southwestern.edu/departments/mathcompsci/OHProject/impagliaz\...](http://ahab.southwestern.edu/departments/mathcompsci/OHProject/impagliazzoJ-overview.html)

The Second Roundtable for Department Chairs was co-located with the
Symposium and held on March 7, 2007. The leaders were Sandra DeLoatch
(Norfolk State University), Joyce Currie Little (Towson State
University), and Frank Young (Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology).

The 10th Doctoral Consortium was again co-located with the Symposium and
was held on March 7, 2007. The organizers were Orit Hazzan
(Technion-Israel Institute of Technology) and Josh Tenenberg (University
of Washington, Tacoma). Discussants were Debra T. Burhans (Canisius
College), Philip East (University of Northern Iowa), Dan Garcia
(University of California at Berkeley), Donald Joyce (UNITEC Institute
of Technology), Mary Z. Last (University of Mary Hardin-Baylor), and
Robert McCartney, (University of Connecticut).

The 12th ITiCSE was held June 25-27, 2007 at the University of Dundee in
Scotland. Janet Hughes (University of Dundee) was Conference Chair.
Ramanee Peiris (University of Dundee) and Paul Tymann (Rochester
Institute of Technology) were Program Chairs. There were 211 submissions
and 61 were accepted for a 28.9% acceptance rate. 223 people were in
attendance and there were 6 Working Groups.

Here are some pictures from **ITiCSE 2007 in Dundee, Scotland**:\
![ITiCSE-2007-1](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/ITiCSE-2007-1.jpg)\
Michael E. Caspersen and Mats Daniels at ITiCSE 2007\
![ITiCSE-2007-2](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/ITiCSE-2007-2.jpg)\
Catherine Lang and Mary Anne Egan\
![ITiCSE-2007-3](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/ITiCSE-2007-3.jpg)\
Mary Anne Egan presenting

The 3rd ICER was held September 15-16, 2007 at the Georgia Institute of
Technology in Atlanta, GA. The Conference and Program Chairs were again
the original triumvirate: Richard Anderson (University of Washington),
Sally Fincher (University of Kent at Canterbury), and Mark Guzdial
(Georgia Institute of Technology). There were 24 papers submitted with
14 accepted for a 58% acceptance rate. There were 71 attendees that
second year.

In the June 2007 (Volume 39, Number 2) Issue of Inroads, outgoing Chair
Henry Walker wrote a wonderful summary of the organization. Here are a
few highlights:

For many years up to 2001, SIGCSE had the highest retention rate of any
Special Interest Group (SIG) within the Association for Computing
Machinery (ACM). However, SIGCSE was attracting relatively few new
members \-- even fewer than the small number leaving. Put together,
SIGCSE had 1908 members at the end of fiscal year 2001, after
experiencing a decade-long period of gradual decline in membership. This
placed SIGCSE as the ninth largest of approximately 34 SIGs. In 2001,
the Board changed directions to strongly encourage conference
participants to join SIGCSE through the strategic setting of
registration rates. The expectation was that many new members would seek
to retain their membership \-- if only we could get them started.
Additional efforts to increase member involvement and expand recruitment
are discussed below. Although the impact of specific initiatives is
difficult to assess, the organization seemed to be connecting well with
many in the computing community. At the end of the 2006 fiscal year
SIGCSE has 2587 members, an increase of about 35% over 2001, and now
ranked as the 4th largest SIG (just overtaking SIG PLAN by 27 members in
2006).

In April, the conference leadership for SIGCSE 2010 was announced and
current SIGCSE members were invited to volunteer to be part of future
program committees. Within 35 hours, 21 SIGCSE members had volunteered
\-- a wonderful testament to the interest of our membership in the
SIGCSE organization!

The Symposium and ITiCSE showed good growth:\
![38thTS-statistics](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/38thTS-statistics.jpg)

The SIGCSE Board raised annual dues from \$17 to \$25 in 1999, and dues
continue at that level today (for an electronic membership). This fee is
consciously set to attract members, but (alas) it does not fully cover
members costs. To balance budgets, SIGCSE traditionally has relied on
achieving a surplus on the annual symposium. In many earlier years,
symposia could achieve a profit of \$25,000 or so, through the diligence
and extraordinary efforts of conference leadership. More recently, the
symposia have become extremely successful with exhibitors, particularly
with the efforts of our exhibit management companies. At the same time,
we plan both the ITiCSE and ICER conferences to break even, and
sometimes a ITiCSE conference makes as much as a \$10,000. With careful
stewardship and with the resounding success of symposia and their
exhibits, SIGCSE finances have progressed remarkably since 2001. For
example, in 2001, SIGCSE\'s Fund Balance (reserve accounts with ACM) was
\$184,153.01; and ACM required a significant fraction of this to be held
in reserve to cover cash flow for conferences. SIGCSE was in a solid
financial position, but its reserves were only about 60% of annual
conference expenses and receipts. With on-going careful stewardship and
significant revenues from symposia exhibits, SIGCSE\'s Fund Balance at
the end of the 2006 fiscal year was \$438,699.04 \-- an increase of
about 138% since 2001. This level of financial expense has greatly
exceeded expectations \-- but it also has allowed the SIGCSE Board to
keep registration fees for SIGCSE symposia relatively low while
expanding SIGCSE programs and activities.

Special Projects: In 2002, through the vision of Sally Fincher and
others, SIGCSE initiated a program of Special Projects Grants "to
support members who wish to investigate and introduce new ideas in the
learning and teaching of computing." Grants are possible up to \$5,000
USD per proposal, and successful recipients are expected to present
their results at a SIGCSE conference.

In that same issue, Inroads published eleven papers on the topic of
Computer and Human Error (CHE). CHE opens a new area of computing. We
have all experienced computer human errors and now people are
researching and addressing this new area. I am delighted to share these
CHE works with you.

The December 2007 (Volume 39, Issue 4) Inroads premiered a new cover for
this and future publications. Slightly more graphic introductory pages
were also introduced as we moved toward modern times.\
![InroadsDecember2007](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/InroadsDecember2007.jpg)

That same issue included an Invited Editorial from Bill Manaris (College
of Charleston) reflecting on possible contributions to the falling
enrollments in computer science. How different from today!

Finally, here\'s part of poem, \" An Ode to Computing Educators at
SIGCSE\" by Tony Clear. It was recited to the SIGCSE award recipients at
a dinner in Covington, Kentucky, March 8, 2007:

SIGCSE a group of fine people\
Scholars who share humanity\
Through their love of others\
Love for learning\
And love of teaching.\
No matter what their age,\
Through firm personal conviction,\
Mentoring life long learning.

Knowing that\
To truly learn

First\
Must come\
Or be developed

The thirst.

So,

Blessed are those who thirst\
But even more so\
Blessed are the thirst makers.

Tony Clear\
08 March 2007