---
title: "2009 History Blog"
layout: page
---

The 40th! Technical Symposium was held March 3-8, 2009 in Chattanooga,
TN. The Conference co-chairs were Sue Fitzgerald (Metropolitan
University) and Mark Guzdial (Georgia Institute of Technology). The
Program co-chairs were Gary Lewandowski (Xavier University) and Steve
Wolfman (University of British Columbia). There were 305 papers
submitted and 100 were accepted for a 32.8% acceptance rate. There were
1176 people in attendance. The theme of the conference was "Engaging
Computer Science Education." Full Symposium statistics:\
![40thTS-statistics](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/39thTS-statistics.jpg)

New things introduced this year included having Associate Program Chairs
who implemented the first two-stage paper review process for the SIGCSE
Symposium and the first ever Video program, organized by Dennis Bouvier.
The 2009 Video page is still up at:
<https://www.cs.siue.edu/~dbouvie/channelsigcse/program_summary.htm>.
Video kiosks were placed around the venue and videos played on the hotel
closed circuit tv during the symposium.

The celebration of the 40th annual SIGCSE conference was held during the
reception Thursday night at Chattanooga's Tennessee Aquarium.

The Outstanding Contribution to Computer Science Education Award was
given to **Elliot Koffman**, for an extraordinary record of teaching,
curriculum development, publishing papers as well as numerous textbooks,
and for helping to shape Computer Science education. His keynote was
entitled, \"All I Really Need To Know I Learned in CS1.\"

The Lifetime Service to Computer Science Education was awarded to
**Michael Clancy**, for thirty years of outstanding, lasting
contributions and research in computer science education: \"Oh
Pascal!\", case studies, AP leadership, lab-based instruction,
self-paced innovation, and mentoring.

The other keynotes were Craig Mundie, Chief Research and Strategy
Officer of Microsoft, gave the Friday keynote address on "Rethinking
Computing." Gregory Abowd of Georgia Institute of Technology spoke
during Saturday's concluding luncheon on "Make IT Matter: How Computing
Can Make a Difference."

Pre-symposium events included:

-   The 4th Roundtable for Department Chairs led by Sandra DeLoatch
    (Norfolk State University),\
    Joyce Currie Little (Towson State University), Frank Friedman
    (Temple University) and Dianne Martin (George Washington
    University).
-   The Roundtable for Department Chairs, an NSF-supported work on
    Studio Learning in Computing Education, an Assessment Roundtable,
    New Teaching Faculty Roundtable, BlueJ/Greenfoot Day, and events on
    Data Intensive Scalable Computing, the Future of Robots in
    Education, Integrating FOSS into the Undergraduate Computing
    Curriculum, and Managing the Academic Career for Faculty Women at
    Undergraduate Computer Science and Engineering Institutions (CRA-W).
    Wow!

The 14th ITiCSE conference was held July 3-8, 2009 at Université Pierre
et Marie Curie, Paris, France. The conference chair was Patrick
Brezillon (Université Pierre et Marie Curie). Program chairs were Ingrid
Russell (University of Hartford) and Jean-Marc Labat (Université Pierre
et Marie Curie). There were 206 papers submitted with 66 accepted for a
32% acceptance rate. There were 247 attendees. Here\'s a picture from
Mary Anne Egan showing the reception / poster room:\
![ITiCSE-2009](../../files/images/50yearsofSIGCSE/ITiCSE-2009.jpg)\
ITICSE 2009 in Paris, France. This was the reception/poster room....\
The 5th ICER conference was held August 10-11 at University of
California Berkeley. The conference and program co-chairs were Mike
Clancy (University of California at Berkeley), Michael Caspersen (Aarhus
University) and Ray Lister (University of Technology, Sydney). There
were 24 papers submitted and 13 were accepted for a 54% acceptance rate.
There were 62 attendees that year and 6 working groups.

The 13th Doctoral Consortium was held with Beth Simon (University of
California at San Diego) leading.

From Volume 41, Issue 2, June 2009 Inroads: SIGCSE unveiled its new
website design ([http://sigcse.org](../index.html)) in early April. Our
webmaster, Scott Grissom at Grand Valley State worked long and hard on
this transition.

The SIGCSE Board meets face-to-face twice a year (once at the Symposium)
and has begun almost monthly conference phone meetings. You can keep
abreast of our decision makings and deliberations, again by consulting
the website section at [http://sigcse.org/about](../../about.html)

The Volume 41, Issue 4, December 2009 was the last issue of Inroads as a
newsletter. Officially it was:

Welcome to this final edition of inroads -- the SIGCSE Bulletin. This
Volume 41, Number 4, 2009 December, issue represents the last time that
inroads (with lower case "i") will be synonymous with the SIGCSE
Bulletin. Starting in 2010, the SIGCSE Bulletin will continue with
Volume 42, Number 1 as an online newsletter. The "new" SIGCSE Bulletin
would contain news items related to SIGCSE and its operations as well as
other SIGCSE-related information. Starting in 2010, in addition to the
SIGCSE Bulletin, ACM will publish Volume 1, Number 1 of a magazine
called ACM Inroads (with upper case "I"). This new ACM magazine will
have content similar to inroads as found in this current 2009 December
issue. Columnists will continue to contribute to the publication;
invited editorials would continue to appear when appropriate.